Moen Rabani is the co-editor of the
online magazine jeda and an Arab Israeli
conflict analyst he joins us live now
from Montreal thanks very much for being
with us so let me ask you first of all
about uh what's happening at the UN
right now and this kind of passing of
the language and and and wrangling over
just what's going to be included in the
in the text of this deal is it really
going to make any difference in the
end well I I think the dilemma here is
that any resolution that could make a
meaningful difference um in terms of the
situation on the ground in the Gaza
Strip is certain to be vetoed by the
United States and any resolution that
the United States feels it is able to
support is going to be essentially
meaningless um for the besieged
population in the Gaza Strip I mean
let's be clear it was only um the SW
week that the United States voted
against a general assembly resolution
affirming the right of the Palestinian
people to
self-determination um in addition to
what your correspondent was reporting
there are additional reports that the US
insisted on seeing
references um to a demand for all
parties not not just Israel all parties
to respect International humanitarian
law to have that removed from the draft
resolution
as well so in effect the the US is
voting for the continuation of The Siege
um for the continuation of the mass
killings in the Gaza Strip and most
importantly the idea of humanitarian
assistance without a ceasefire is
absolutely meaningless and illusory I
mean who in their right mind believes
that humanitarian assistance can be
delivered throughout the Gaza Strip to
all those in need um while the Gaza
Strip is experiencing the most intensive
bombing campaign in the entire history
of the Middle East and when you see um
all of the pictures that are coming out
of Gaza and what we've been reporting
there of uh the the the constant
bombardment and the desperate
humanitarian situation and that is jux
opposed with what's happening in New
York and you know we see well we don't
see it because it's behind closed doors
but people sitting around the tables uh
arguing over this word and that word
what do you make of all of that what do
you make of that
contrast well again um uh you have a
situation in New York where um a
superpower with veto uh powers in the
Security Council is doing its absolute
best to ensure that the situation on the
ground in Gaza remains unchanged and if
it changes it will only change for the
worst and I think it's important to
point out here that one reason um that
the US would like to see references to
international law removed from the draft
resolution is because under
international law and let's remember the
Security Council is effectively the
custodian of the of of international law
to a large extent under international
law there can be no conditionality to
the provision of humanitarian Aid um to
a civilian population and more
importantly or as importantly under
international law and occupying power
has a positive obligation to provide
humanitarian assistance to the
population it occupies so as your
question implied there is a complete
disconnect between the discussions in
New York and the reality in the Gaza
Strip and and and as a final point I
think it it's worth considering that one
reason that the US is SE seeking to make
this an absolutely meaningless word
salad of a resolution is that perhaps
they're trying to provoke the Russians
or perhaps the Chinese into casting a
vote against this resolution because it
does nothing and then you know they can
play the innocent Angel uh and blame
others uh for the continuation of their
policies good to get your perspective on
this m Rabani thanks very much for being
with
us thank you you